we've been taught the wrong way to stop
slicing I mean think about it
how many times have you come across the
tip you've tried it out to try to
improve your slice and it simply hasn't
worked now you're a great athlete I
guarantee you that if you were taught
the right way you'd be able to fix your
slice just like that so what is it about
the traditional way of trying to stop
the slice that doesn't work we're going
to get into that and then we're also
going to talk about a very simple
four-step process when you follow this
it's the quickest easiest way to improve
your slice it really works like magic so
why does a traditional method of not
slicing not work well what's happening
when you slice is you're coming a little
bit over the top or your swing path is
coming out and your club is moving right
to left across the ball now I'm
exaggerating there you may not be doing
it this much but that Club is moving
from right to left across this golf ball
now when you do this you're keenly aware
that you have to have your face open
if this face isn't open that ball is
gonna go a mile to the left so if I'm
coming over the top and I'll release the
face that ball is going straight out of
bounds left right so I'm not gonna do
that again you're good athlete your body
senses this so you hold that face open
as you swing to the left that allows the
ball to start kind of down the left side
of the fairway and then fade into the
fairway and when you do it well it's
right in the middle of the fairway you
lose a little bit of yardage doing that
but you can still hit some good shots
every once in a while he goes a little
bit haywire he loses even more yardage
you don't hit a very solid he end up to
the right or to the left it can really
cause a lot of problems in your golf
swing now the traditional way of saying
stop the slice is by saying let's swing
more inside-out or to the right
get that inside-out path get this Club
in the slot here as we're making the
downswing the problem with that is as a
slicer you're aware that the face always
needs to be open remember if I swing to
the left and I'll release the face that
balls going out of bounds so by being
used to having that face open now when
you swing inside-out that ball not only
starts to the right and the right rough
but then it still slices we haven't
gotten rid of the slice and it's a
terrible shot to the right
well again being an athlete you are you
realize that's not what you want to do
so you start going back to that over the
top again
to get the ball back out in the fairway
so it's kind of a never-ending cycle
between trying to swing inside-out it
not working and then going back to what
you're comfortable with
we're gonna break that process today now
one thing that nobody else and any other
programs have and you've probably seen a
ton of slicing programs I've seen a lot
lately charging ninety seven dollars to
teach other spics your slice well I'm
not gonna do that I'm not gonna charge
you anything you can get all for free
here today but they're still missing
something in those programs it's the way
that your body naturally learns it's
called interleaving practice and it's
one of the most studied topics in motor
learning I'm gonna talk about that in my
four step process and I'll tell you what
if you follow along with these drills it
doesn't take hardly any time at all and
you're never gonna slice again let's go
get started now be sure to hit that
subscribe button I have got a ton of
great videos coming out for you this
year and I don't want you to miss any of
them you're only going to be notified
when those are released if you're a
subscriber also click that thumbs up
that really helps me out and comment
below I'd love to hear from you
alright so we're about to jump into this
four-step process but before we do we
really have to understand while we're
doing these four steps if we don't
understand the why what's gonna happens
we'll try these out we'll forget about
it a couple days later we'll be right
back slicing in I want you to eliminate
the slice forever and understanding the
why is a big piece of that so piece
number one is going to be controlling
this clubface you remember that I said
when you're coming over the top
traditionally you have to have that
clubface open to be able to get that
ball to start toward the fairway and not
go way left if you're coming over the
top like that so you're very used to
having a face open what we're gonna do
is we're gonna employ a technique called
interleaving it's also called random
practice or variable practice that's
been highly studied in motor learning
and what you're trying to do here is
you're trying to fill the extremes so we
already are used to having the extreme
of having the face open now I need to
have the extreme of really closing that
face and having it's super closed I got
a couple easy tips that are gonna get
you to close that face to really to
extreme now when that's happening balls
are going to go directly left and that's
a good thing we have to get those balls
going way left so that now when we do
step 2 which is going to be swinging
more inside out now it's going to make
sense of why we'd want to sing inside
out so when you swing inside out now
you're going to be releasing that face
it's going to start till the right side
of the fairway and then draw back in to
the middle of the fairway you're gonna
have more speed and power because you're
gonna have less loft coming into the
club
it's gonna really the ball is going to
pop off the face it's gonna be way
better so again we're gonna employ
interleaving practice there we already
know how to swing to left but we're
going to go really extreme and swing way
to the left so we can feel that extreme
we're gonna go really extreme swing way
to the right so that we can feel that
that's the fastest way to learn using
those interleaving techniques will take
days and weeks off your practice versus
hours you can really change it like that
if you use this the third step is gonna
be getting to the ball we're going to
talk about why there's a problem when I
use my inside out technique my
inside-out swing now all of a sudden
it's difficult for me to get to the ball
for what I even used to and there's a
specific way you move your body some
specific drills to be able to reach the
ball so you feel comfortable hitting it
with some power and then finally the
fourth step is we're gonna take that
hook that we've developed really
starting that ball down the right rough
and drawing it back big time right to
left curve and we're gonna tone that
down to a draw you follow these four
steps and the wise then you'll never
struggle with that slice again alright
so now we're ready for the fun part
let's jump right in here let's learn the
first piece which is controlling that
face now if I can get the face to open
as much as I want and close as much as I
want and really get those extremes now I
have control over this clubface I can
get it to do whatever I want it to do
that's the goal of this that's why we're
going to these extremes so we can fill
both ways now you're already comfortable
having the face open so I want you to
feel that even more extreme now I'm not
gonna hit this one very hard because
it's gonna go right into the pond here
but I want you to make a little mini
swing you could use the driver you can
even do this for the six or seven iron
if you want to we don't have to do this
with a driver you feel a little bit more
comfortable you can start with that then
move to the driver which is a little
longer not as easy to hit but I'm gonna
feel like the face is wide open so as
you swing I want to feel like the face
is pointing directly to the right and
I'm just going a little 30 or 40 yard
shot and you can see that ball shut off
to the right I still hit it in the water
lost the golf ball but that's alright so
the second piece here and we're going to
alternate these we're going to do ten
swings
excuse me ten swings each so 20 total
swings and the second one I'm gonna
really get this ball to go dead to the
left which means my clubface is going to
be very close
as I'm coming into the shot this is not
going to be a good golf shot it's not
even supposed to be really a golf shot
it's just a face awareness drill and
once you get awareness of this face now
I can do whatever I want to with it
here's the steps to make this work
number one you're gonna feel like in the
backswing you really rotate these hands
clockwise so if I had a door handle I'm
gonna rotate the handle to the left and
now logo my glove is facing down if I
had it with my right hand I'm gonna turn
it to the left the palm of my hand is
facing down so this would be kind of a
normal backswing I'm gonna wrote
everything tight everything down now the
face is really closed I do that with a
golf club
you'll see that as I go back this would
be a normal swing I'm rotating until
everything is very closed here so if I
went back down to my impact that would
be face pointing way over to the left
there that's exactly what we want so
you're gonna feel like the logo of your
glove pointing out again your hands are
turning that doorknob to the left and
everything is very closed here as you
come down and swing I want you to
visualize the sweet spot of your golf
club being all the way on the outside of
the golf ball so if I swung it would
just go almost graze my left leg is the
feeling that I'm gonna have so very
closed closed closed closed all the way
through get to the outside of golf ball
so it goes straight left so let me show
you what that would look like I'm just a
little mini swing here so just two dead
two left again 3040 yards is all we're
doing if you're seeing this ball barely
go to the left so if I make a swing and
the golf ball looks like this so just a
little bit to the left then I'm not
doing nearly enough again I want to feel
like this thing is this shooting past my
left leg you're gonna alternate 20
swings one to the right one to the left
one to the right wanted left now the
alternation is what's really key here
because that's what's going to allow
your brain to fill the differences
between face open and face closed if I
just try to do the close one and the
close one only it's not gonna work now
if those drills don't work and you need
to get even more extreme y'all get a
couple more tips for you that was the
backswing and that's the easiest way to
do it you kind of set it close in the
backswing and keep it closed coming on
through
if you're still struggling we're going
to close it in the backswing just like
we talked about hands turning to left
this clubface closing and then we're
going to close it even more in the
downswing so as you come through imagine
the hands rolling on over so if you had
something between your forearms I want
my forearms to roll over each other and
now you'll see the face of this club is
pointing directly down to the ground if
I'm going toward the camera here that
would look like this close close close
everything's closing the backswing and
then the downswing
it's going to look like that faces down
this is the logo down forearms rolled
over each other so close going back even
more close coming through to really hook
it now if you do that that ball is going
dead left here let me show you one real
quick so again I'm trying to go more and
more extreme whatever my feeling has to
be is completely fine to make this
happen so I'm very closed and then I'm
rolling it on over almost like you're
taking the logo of your glove and
twisting it this way
hi handicapped golfers tend to take the
glove and turn it this way to move the
club through contact that's the back and
forth like that low handicap golfers
tend to both at rest and turn it this
way so the palm of my hand is up and I'm
releasing it when I add the right hand
in there that's releasing it that way so
again I'm very very extreme very
exaggerated with this you can see us
going dead to left that's very key that
you do that do those 20 swings and we're
ready to move on to the next step all
right so once we've done those reps and
to be honest with you you don't have to
do twenty ten would be completely fine
as long as they're successful so if
you're making them go left and you're
making them go right that's really all
we're after once you've learned that and
done it a few times it's pretty easy to
do so you don't have to just go out
there all day and hit a whole bucket
like that a few shots just to get
awareness of the face now you're ready
to move on now the second piece we have
to get an awareness of the path now so
we know how to close and open the face
from the drill we just did turning the
hand closed on the backswing rotating on
through closed in the forward swing now
we have to understand how to get that
pathway to the right and then also what
causes the pathway to the left so
imagine I'm swinging at this tee here
and I'm going to actually make my path
go wait
left imagine that if I was going to keep
my feet basically lined up like toward
the target here but I wanted to swing
directly 90 degrees to left well what
I'd have to do is my upper body would
have to shift too far forward now all of
a sudden my shoulders would have to open
up this way my foot would obviously have
to come off the ground there but then I
would be able to swing directly to the
left so what I want you to do here seems
a little silly but go ahead and put a
tee down as though you were gonna hit
that ball 90 degrees that way so I'm
gonna set up to where a normal golf shot
would be I'm gonna rotate my body to the
left and now all of a sudden I'm going
to swing that direction so you'll notice
what happens here look at my hips very
open look at my shoulders up over my
front foot they're pointing to the left
and that allows me to swing in that
direction you're doing that a little bit
when you come over the top over the top
players tend to get out in front of it
the body starts going this way my
shoulders start getting more over this
lead leg and that promotes an a right to
left over the top tight path let's go
the opposite direction now I want you to
turn 90 degrees this way like I'm gonna
hit toward the camera and I'm gonna go
ahead and put a tee down there also just
outside my right foot so again here's my
normal ball feet are set up like I'm
going on the fairway and now I'm gonna
go ahead and rotate and I'll move
because I'm put the tea down in the
wrong spot but I'd have to lift up my
left foot now my chest is way over my
right foot I'd really be able to swing
out to the right and hit that way my
weight would be more on my back foot if
you're over the top your weights on your
left foot if I'm coming from the inside
my weight stays on this back foot a
little longer and then shifts forward so
you're naturally gonna do all these
things I could sit here and go over
every single little tiny detail about
what your feet your hips your shoulders
everything would be doing different but
I don't need to do all that all I need
to do is put a tea over here an
imaginary ball over here and get you to
make some swings where you're gonna
swing directly out to the right that's
all you got to do it's that simple
so again 20 swings we're gonna do one
way left and then immediately go one way
to the right you don't have to the golf
ball when doing that so you don't even
really need the tees you can do this
right from your living room
just try to get the swing path 90
degrees that way 90 degrees that way and
then we're ready to move on to step
number three because now we're gonna
have complete control of the extremes of
the path alright so finally there's an
obvious problem with what I've taught
you so far when I'm making my swing path
to the right that's fine and we all
could swing to the right but now all of
a sudden our ball would have to be way
back here in the stance if you're going
to swing with a really inside-out path
I'd have to have the ball way back here
so that I can make that kind of swinging
direction it's my balls up here where it
should be kind of on my left foot with a
driver now my body is kind of in the way
I can't really get to that golf ball and
the reason for that is this whenever
you're taking your normal swing and
we're a little over the top remember now
my hips are often behind my upper body
in my shoulders when we did that swing
where I was way to the left that's
exactly what's going on when you're
having your over-the-top swing that's
what's happening it's a little bit the
upper body is in front of the lower body
and that's promoting that over-the-top
swing so this is blocking you
my hips are blocking me from swinging
more to the inside so I try to swing to
the inside but I have this bad body
alignment and now my hips are jammed up
and they're in the way by making this
swing 90 degrees to the right we fixed
that there's no way you can swing this
direction with your hips in the way I've
had to clear my hips back this way my
shoulders got to the right of my hips
and now I could swing out in that
direction that's something you naturally
do when you just try to swing that
direction but not really going to
transfer over to hitting a good golf
shot because I'd have to have my ball
way back here to get that big inside-out
path and if I wanted a little bit less
of an inside-out path that I have to
have it there and the time I get back up
here again it feels awkward so here's
what we're going to do we have to learn
to get the body out of the way to
promote that inside path I have to make
a lot of room here so that I can hit
this ball from the inside and have
plenty of room for my club to travel
that way there's a very simple drill I
have for this so number one I'm gonna go
ahead and set up this would be my
imaginary golf ball that I'm gonna hit
I'm going to put one T six inches behind
that and another one six inches behind
that so I'm gonna set up as though this
is the golf ball I'm going to hit this
front tee then I'm going to gradually
work on swinging to the right and
hitting each of those T's and
so again I'm gonna get the same feeling
I had when I was swinging this direction
really out to the right I'm gonna try to
clip this T now in order to do that I
have to get my hips out of the way so I
really want you to feel like this leg is
angled in and now you've created all
this space here to allow your arms to
swing to the right and you'll see I can
still get this really extreme for now
let's go really extreme and get that
ball swinging away or that club swinging
way out there to the right and I'm hit
that back T now I'll move one T forward
then I'm gonna have to go even more my
hips are gonna have to go even more out
of the way my shoulders are angled back
and now I've created all this room to
where I can still swing say 45 degrees
to the right and hit that second tee
there we go so now my body is getting
out of the way for the first time we're
getting rid of this motion and getting
in the opposite of that which is again
I'm going extreme here I'm taking
advantage of this inner leading to make
things faster and then finally I'm gonna
go to this front tee and do the exact
same thing again I have to make huge
amounts of space let my body clear out
of the way to be able to hit that tee
I'm gonna swing it again 45 to the right
and you can see now how I could really
make an inside-out swing that my hips
are out of the way so let's put this
together now we have the clubface
closing we now have a new feeling of how
to swing inside out let's just do both
of them at the same time so let's grab a
golf ball here and I want you to make a
huge hook I want you to feel like you're
swinging 45 degrees to the right way
toward this house I don't know if you
can see that in the frame but almost out
of the frame to the right and then I
want to have that clubface closing down
so that ball really hooks back so if I
do this correctly I'm gonna start this
ball way over that pond and I'm gonna
try to hook it back all the way in the
left side of the fairway now I may not
get that extreme but that's the feeling
that I'm trying to get so I'm closing in
the backswing creating this room in here
to swing to the right and I'm really
letting that thing swing let's go ahead
and give it a try Oh awesome
so that ball was a huge hook started
counting on the right side of the
fairway
and it hooked all the way over to the
left side of the fairway so you'll see
for my flight scope numbers there the
path or the direction I was swinging his
weight of the
right and my face is closing down to the
left of that that's how you get that big
hook now once you go ahead and repeat
that five more times so again if I'm not
swinging far enough to the right my goal
is to get those shoulders lined up more
behind my body clear the hips out of the
way and then I can really have that path
to the right I want to feel like and
this isn't actually happening but I want
to feel like my club almost grazes my
leg as I'm swinging through here coming
so far inside out let me go ahead and
try this one again I'm gonna try to
start it even more to the right and hook
it even more on this one if I can let's
give it a whirl here we go so I started
that one kind of in the right edge of
the fairway and it probably hooked a
good I don't know maybe 50 yards
something like that if we look at the
flight scope again we're gonna see the
same thing pathway to the right and the
face really close that's what creates
the big hook don't be afraid of that
I want to see big hooks from you at
first I want the more the better if you
can hook at 60 yards hook at 60 that'd
be fantastic at this point because the
next step we're going to straighten this
out into a draw so here's the cool thing
now that we've got these extremes and
we're really trying to swing out there I
bet you can make what feels like a
normal swing and because you've made
these such extreme exaggerations your
normal swing is going to be pretty
straight now so I bet if you go ahead
and you just take a normal swing
whatever you feel like don't worry about
any instruction you're probably going to
be geared a little bit more toward a
draw so let's go ahead and give that a
whirl and you can see there I just hit a
nice draw right down the middle of
fairway couldn't hit one much better
than that
now the cool thing about this is that
you now have control of it we haven't
thrown a bandaid on this we've actually
learned how to control the face
we've done some drills where it's really
closed we've done some drills where it's
really open you start to getting a feel
you're starting to develop a feel of
what your hands and arms feel like to
create and open and close face we also
learned what it means to swing more from
the inside out how we have to create
this pocket back here by angling our
body so now we have room to swing inside
out and if we want to go the other way
we even know what we have to do to come
over the top we create this pocket in
the other direction shoulders get ahead
hips get back and now can swing to the
left so you have control over how to
make a path to the right in the left
when you have control of those two
things you can do whatever you want to
do if the ball starts to hook a little
bit too much you go a little bit more
towards your fade swing and straighten
it out if the ball starts to slice a
little bit too much you go a little bit
more towards your hook swing and start
to straighten it out so now you have the
real tools to be able to solve any
problem that you want to all right so
now we're into the really fun stuff
we're starting to control this nice
drawl here let's add some power to it
now you can finally unleash your inner
athlete and swing with a lot of
authority because you're not afraid that
that ball is going to slice now you can
hit that nice power draw and the harder
you swing the farther it's going to go a
big piece of this is what I call the
power turn and it's really understanding
how to load your hips and your shoulders
up in the backswing now the cool thing
is even if you're tight I have a very
special way that you can still get that
good turn if you're not flexible at all
I'm gonna play one of the best power
turn videos here in just one second go
ahead and click the card that pops up on
the screen or the link down below you'll
be able to get instant access to that
video you'll start turning more and not
only going to draw it you're gonna draw
it and hit it really far but with the
correct technique we can all hit it with
really good distance without a lot of
muscular effort and it all starts out
the very first thing you have to do is
get a good powerful turn to load up the
body and it's not only in golf but in
all sports we have to rotate the body at
least 90 degrees for the shoulders as
you swing at the top preferably we can
go even a little bit past 90 to really
get loaded up that's going to allow us
to have a lot of power so we don't just
have to look at golf for this let's
actually look at other sports they're
rotating their body then they're coming
forward so we have to get that load we
have to get this big shoulder turn to be
able to create power in the golf swing
so in this series of videos I'm going to
show you exactly how to do that that's
one of the first keys to getting power
and we're all going to get at least a 90
degree turn if not more than that I
think you'll be surprised at what you
can do so let's go ahead and get started
with the next series of videos and I'm
gonna show you how to get this big
powerful turn I guess so before we go
let's take a look at this in action with
some of the top pros now here we're
looking at Adam Scott and you're gonna
see as he rotates to the top good full
shoulder turn this is pretty typical of
what I see with the top pros a little
past 90
those guys are working on their
flexibility so sometimes I can get to
100 or even 110 degrees
you